now at some earlier stages of research
scientists reconstructed the megalodon
looking like a bigger
just a little more dangerous version of
a great white shark
movies then followed suit added a couple
of details on their own and
ta-da we've got a marine giant that
could grow up to
90 feet long well hold on hold on
megalodons were usually between 50 and
55 feet
sometimes growing up to 60 feet for
comparison a bowling lane is 60 feet
long
a school bus is around 45 feet and an
average person
is 5 feet 10 inches tall so yeah not bad
megalodon
but still not 90 feet its weight was
around 50 to 60 tons
which is something like 10 adult
elephants or even a boeing 737
that's just their females though the
ladies were almost twice as big as the
males
another movie versus reality thing the
megalodon had nothing to do with a great
white shark
the closest they could be is cousins
because megalodon
in fact is the last descendant of a
completely different lineage of sharks
plus its kind is around three times
bigger than an average great white
it has a shorter nose and a much flatter
jaw that almost looks like it's squashed
also meg's pectoral fins are longer than
those of the great white sharks
ancient predators ate a lot so they
needed something to support their weight
they both had an excellent sense of
smell though so
even in prehistoric times it wasn't a
good idea to go swimming with a chunk of
raw meat in hand
and it certainly isn't safe now whether
the makes hiding somewhere in the depths
which some still believe is true or it's
gone forever
younger cousins will be there waiting
also both of them like to go after big
marine mammals
so they would certainly have things to
do together
that is until the may got moody and
accidentally
ate its friend yeah you never know
these guys had a different hunting style
great whites prefer to dive straight
toward their prey
and find the softest spots like exposed
legs or
underbelly megalodon aimed for the fins
and tail
because of its almost 10-foot jaws and
what's considered to be
the strongest bite ever its teeth could
pierce
almost anything sometimes an entire
tooth would be found
embedded in the bone of some bigger
animal such as a whale
without the main parts they used for
swimming poor sea animals were then
helpless
and unable to escape yet whales were
just
a smaller part of the megalodon's diet
seals
sea cows squids dolphins other sharks
the good old meg probably wouldn't say
no to some random school of smaller fish
swimming into its mouth either nothing
better than a good snack after a big
tasty dinner
even those giant turtles weren't safe
within their thick shells
the mag probably took those as a dare
challenge on a daily basis
such a diverse diet and in big amounts
megalodon would eat about 2500 pounds of
food
every day no wonder it dominated the
ocean
almost 300 teeth in five rows and we're
talking about
sharp chompers that could grow up to
seven inches long
even its name stands for giant tooth
hey i'm thinking maybe it had a cousin
orthodontia
which means either crooked teeth or deep
pockets
still megalodon would change thousands
of teeth over a lifetime
since meg's teeth weren't that strong
they would often fall out
then it would get new ones within one to
two days so
it could continue its hunting sessions
without any serious interruptions
the same thing happens with modern
sharks as well new teeth replace damaged
or worn out ones
those teeth falling out were the only
thing that helped scientists do
any research on the megalodon at all
they found them
all around the world yep megalodons were
quite some travelers
they lived in all oceans and their
fossils were found on
all continents except antarctica what
to call since their skeletons were not
made of bone but of cartilage
teeth are the only evidence they've ever
even existed
they gave scientists an insight into a
lot of things including size
even with modern sharks scientists
determined their size
by the dimensions of only one tooth and
do the same with the meg
megalodon had the strongest bite of all
living creatures on earth
it would definitely be fun to see the
clash between the meg
and say t-rex sadly they missed their
chance to meet and establish some
long-term friendship
since dinosaurs went extinct over 60
million years ago
meg on the other hand terrified all the
inhabitants of the seas and oceans
from 23 to 2.5 million years ago
where could megalodon live these days
well it would probably
love the places modern sharks go to such
as florida hawaii
brazil south africa or some other
tropical paradise
when you think about it it's not bad at
all meg
take me with you meg itself didn't have
any serious competition
or a natural enemy but its infants were
too weak to defend themselves
that's why the apex predator had to
choose warm shallow waters
with no strong currents to raise its
babies
those by the way were around six and a
half feet long
not quite tiny themselves scientists
actually
found some of their juveniles teeth so
it seems like part of their nursery
areas
was the coast of panama and that's 10
million years old
okay time to meet with one of
megalodon's potential rivals
the mighty sperm whale 45 to 60 feet
long
the size sure makes it quite an
adversary modern sperm whales don't have
such big teeth
but their ancestors which lived around
13 million years ago
were well packed the largest tooth found
was 5 inches wide and
14 inches long that's something like the
biggest soda bottle out there
that would make an interesting combat
here we're talking about this giant
marine predator
but this is not the only intriguing
ancient animal that wandered the oceans
in fact sharks are some of the oldest
creatures on our planet
more ancient than insects mammals
dinosaurs
even trees mass extinction events wiped
out
most life on earth giant asteroids fell
on its surface
continents split up and so many other
things happened
but sharks were there alive persevering
apparently with no contact with the
outside world
just chilling and doing their thing
the spiny shark was actually one of the
first animals with a jaw
not that it could do much with that jaw
since it was only around 12 inches long
meg wouldn't even bother around this one
and it wasn't even a real shark
it just looked like one if you ever
wondered how a combination of eel and
shark would look like
well here it is eel shark preferred
fresh water
was up to three feet long and went
extinct around 200 million years ago
since dinosaurs appeared around 230
million years ago
the eel shark was probably there to give
them warm welcome
prepare a buffet but the dinosaurs had
unfortunately mistaken it for dessert
now this predator would get some real
screams on a nice sandy beach during a
spring break
if it was still alive the ginsu shark
it was nicknamed after ginsu knives for
a huge mouth of almost
500 razor sharp teeth one of this
monster shark's hobbies
was to go after big turtles okay now
seriously
what's with that shark turtle thing
scissor tooth sharks now we're talking
these guys lived around 300 million
years ago and had some strangely shaped
heads
the weirdest part were their jaws this
shark didn't shed old and worn out teeth
but kept growing new ones at the back
those in the front were then pushed
forward
and with age the shark got a really
strange scissor tooth look
scientists are still unsure why it had
to be like that
hey time to call in the orthodont
even during the meg's long reign our
favorite ancient predator still wasn't
the only scary giant shark in town
for instance um well i can't pronounce
its name so i'll just call it mr c
unfortunately not enough of its fossils
were found to get more information
but some research says it had teeth more
than five inches long
that also implies it could probably grow
to be twenty feet long
oh and if it only left just a couple
more teeth around
i guess the meg wouldn't be the only
movie star from those times
so close c so close